Now I know we just built a Hearts page in order to show some of the routing that we can build.
But the next thing we actually need to do according to our final application is build a shop page.
Now on this shop page what we have are these previews of our collections.
There are always four items in our preview and there is a link to the actual category page.
So if we click it it will take us to the page that has all of the items listed and you'll notice that
they actually use the exact same item component in the shop page.
So what we're going to build is we're just going to set up a shop page and set up our collection previews
on our shop page.
So we're going to build a component for our shop page itself.
We're going to build the component for our actual collection preview and then we're going to build our
collection item component so let's get started.
Now the first thing we need to do is build the actual shop page.
So let's make a new shop page file and folder inside of our pages.
So let's do shop dock component Jess X and because we need to store the data related to our actual collections
on our shop page we're gonna make our shop page a class component.
So we're gonna import react from react and we're gonna do class shop.
Page extends Reactor Component and we know we need access to our state.
So let's do a super props.
And this starts state equals an object where our collections is going to be equal to an array that I
have provided for us.
That has the information related to these collection items.
We will take that array and paste it into R.
So now this does look pretty big especially because this is going to be our default state.
So what I'm gonna do is move this into its own file because it's gonna be static and it's not going
to change at least for now according to our application and it'll be easier for us to focus on the main
thing that matters about our shop page which will be the component itself and its lifecycle methods.
So let's make a new shop dot data dot JSA J.S. and we are just going to export shop data which is equal
to that array and let's actually capitalize this shop data.
Export default contest.
Shop data I think we just gotta put at the bottom.
So let's just declare our concept and then export default shop data.
There we go.
OK now let's import it in like this and let's import in shop data
and now instead of this huge array we'll just point to our array like so and then in our render we are
going to return a div for now that just says shop page and we'll just make sure that everything works
first before we continue building our actual shop page.
So let's export default are shop page and now inside of our objects we have to import our shot Page
from pages slash shop slash shop component and we're not gonna style our pages yet.
We're actually gonna do that later.
Let's just set up the base structure of our actual application.
Since I've had the page and hats we're just going to make sure we've got a shop and we're not going
to use this house page anymore because we were just using it earlier to demonstrate linking and routing.
Now we will have to modify our final data that we actually had before but for now let's just not worry
about it.
We just need our shop page to be connected.
So let's see if it works and let's go back to our application and navigate to slash shop and we see
our shop page.
Awesome.
Now what we need to build is this preview component next right.
This preview collection component.
So let's go into our components and let's add a preview collection component and inside of our preview
collection component we need both the preview collection component itself as well as the styling related
to it.
Styles dot SAS and now inside we need to import react from react as well as the style sheet and then
we need to actually declare a functional component for preview collection and what we want to return
in our preview collection.
Actually let's call it collection preview.
I think that makes a little bit more sun
and we've gotta remember to also update our imports
and what we'll end up returning is a div that can with an outer div that contains our entire collection
and inside there is a title
as well as the actual items themselves so that those items will be held in a div and that will be our
actual preview whereas this will just be the overall collection preview and our title we will have it
as title
and inside of our preview we will end up mapping over the items.
So now that we have an idea of what it's going to look like we need to figure out what we're going to
pass in.
So we know we need the title.
We know we know we want a title being passed in for our props and we know we want it always to be uppercase
and then we know we want to map over an items array that we get in it always before but it will still
be a map of some kind.
So we are gonna do an item's dot map
and we are going to map with the item
and we are going to render for now just a div with the item dot name of the item.
Got to remember those curly braces.
Now I think in r actual shot Page component we our data has name Yes and it has an I.D. So let's use
the I.D. inside of our collection preview as the key
item died.
So we'll just do this for now just so that we have an idea that everything's working so export default
collection preview and we'll also need to import this into our shop page so let's import it in
from our components collection preview collection preview and this will be collection preview from here.
So now instead of a shop page we will want to render out the actual previews.
So inside of our container div that is our actual home page or sorry.
Actual shop page.
Let's just give it that class name of shop page let's do a.
This dot actually lets D structure our collections off first.
So now we have to map over our collections with the collection and let's render out a collection preview
where the key is the collection I.D..
So if we look at the data we'll see on the actual items of our collections themselves.
There is an I.D. and a title.
Now we want access to this I.D. So let's actually structure this off and then we'll do the same thing
we did last time where we do other collection props because we'll need them later.
So for our key we're gonna pass the I.D. and then we're going to spread in other collection prompts.
And what we will actually spread in is going to be the items the title and then the root name.
We're not going to.
This is not going to matter.
We just mainly need the title and the items.
Now I think we actually have title and items.
Awesome.
So now if we look at our application we should see that we are rendering out all of our information.
Now we do need to modify this data so that it only displays for so we're gonna do that inside of this
collection preview.
So when the items come in we're just going to do a.
Items.
Let's do a filter.
We're just going to do item and index and we just want to make sure that our index is less than 4 and
if we save we should see there's only 4 items.
So now the beautiful thing about writing our code functionally like this is that we can just modify
our array past the new Array through right and we can change these array methods.
Now the only thing to keep in mind here and this is something to keep in mind about react is that when
ever this component gets rendered this function call this chain of modifications to our array gets called
every time as long as this component has to re render.
So this is going to be a performance concern.
If this array ever gets really large or on slower computers but we will take a look at how to handle
this a little bit later but definitely a thing to remember is that all of these anonymous function calls
right inside of any component do get called again and re rendered brand new.
When ever this component either gets rendered or re rendered now that we have all of this in in the
next section we're actually going to style this stuff.